24th of October, 2023

We have a basic system that let's us interact with game intities and start a dialog. The structure of our game was simpler to setup than I was expecting, so I'd like to explore a little bit. Let's see if we can add changing rooms to the game.

Actually, starting to add this has made me think more seriously about app structure. I'm going to try switching this to the stack system I've described before. All game "states" will be something that can be updated independantly. Game states will be added to a stack, and only the top element of the stack will be updated at any point.

Eh... nevermind. This is turning out to be annoying. Also I think this is an instance of anticipating complexity instead of accomodating complexity. There's no reason to write this yet so let's not. We'll shove the room changing code into what we've already got.

For moving between rooms, we're going to copy the system I used in the last game I remember doing this with. We'll have "change points" which contain a reference to another room and another change point. Hitting one of these change points will activate a room changing object wich will change the room, and then set the player to the position of the target change point. We'll also add a slow fade out animation.

Running into some issues but I think I realized the issue. We're setting a global variable to track room and point target. But that variable is an instance in the current room. Once we change rooms we lose access to that information. So we need to take information from the target point instead of the original point after we change rooms.

That fixed the issue. What's left now is an easy way to set the position the player ends at when changing to a point in a room. I also want an easy to way to change what point a point brings the player to. For example what if we created an elevator room. The elevator itself could be a room and interacting with the panel changes which floor it brings you to.

We're going to add spawn points. These points will be targets of change points. This will let us specify exactly where we want the player to go in a visual way.

I'm comfortable with our room transition system now. It dynamically remakes the player when moving to a new room, which I think is the right move. To figure out the next step lets list features that I think this game should have:

-Graphical style and structure of early Zelda top down. 
-Walkling animations
-Concept of "direction" and ability to interact with objects in front of player.
-Dialog triggered from interact (added)
-Multiple rooms
-Transitions between rooms (added)
-Elevator between them

We also need to figure out the concept of world state, but I'm not as worried about this. I can already imagine a system for giving different dialog for an interact based on the return value of some globally scoped function. Honestly we could just use a globally scoped map.

Since I don't expect we'll have any actions besides interacting with objects, I think we won't have to worry much about further app state. We may do cut scenes but I think we can manage this with our current system. Next let's give the player some basic sprites and implement the concept of direction and interacting by being next to something and facing it.

Implementing direction wasn't too hard. I also don't think creating animated sprites will be too difficult either, but I'd like to think through this a little more. We want to create dozens of characters for this game, but if we do that I wonder if there's some way to let the player choose their own sprite? I'm tempted to rig up some sort of sprite selection system for game entities.

Yes, I think that's what we should do next. First let's agree that all charcter sprites will have the same format. They'll all be the same size, and thee will be exactly 8 images for each: 4 directions and 2 frames for each direction. Frame 0 will be a standing still frame, and frame 1 will be a stepping forward frame. We'll create walking animations by displaying a loop of:
frame 0
frame 1
frame 0
frame 1 (mirrored)

This will let us create a total of 8 frames per character. Hopefully that's pretty quick. I think the first character will be the hardest, but once we've got one we can use it as a reference for creating all other characters. We should be able to organize these sprites and create functions to easily reference all of them by some sort of fake name.

Why don't we start by making a single character. We'll integrate it into the player and see how we feel after.

Ah, I realized that we should not do the sprite flipping trick because that won't work for East and West travel. For those directions we'll need individual sprites. So I think it'll be easier to just manually flip sprites.

We created 2 characters, got walking animations working, and got the interact object to have character sprites which face the player on interact.

I have some thoughts to clean up and simplify some things. Firstly I think it was a mistake to let elements of app stack reference game world objects as much as they do. Let's change the room change so it only references the target room and spawn point. Also I think interacts should be game objects that update themselves to have the correct sprite, and not have the dialog logic do that.

The next two big features I see missing are a better camera and improved text box. The camera should follow the player around with a bounding box, but never show outside the room. And the text box needs proper styling, layout, and background. I would also like to add the typing effect if possible. 
